---
layout: story
title: STET
author: Sarah Gailey
editor: Julia Rios
date: 2018–10-18 01:00:01 -0500
category: flash fiction
permalink: stet
published: false
teaser: ""
author-img: sarah-gailey.jpg
author-bio: |
  Hugo and Campbell Award finalist Sarah Gailey lives and works in beautiful Portland, Oregon. Their nonfiction has been published by _Mashable_ and _The Boston Globe_, and their fiction has been published internationally. They are a regular contributor for _Tor.com_ and _Barnes & Noble Sci-Fi & Fantasy Blog_. You can find links to their work at www.sarahgailey.com. They tweet at @gaileyfrey.
proofread: true
contentnote: This story contains references to the death of a child.
---

Section 5.4 -- Autonomous Conscience and Automotive Casualty

While Sheenan’s _Theory of Autonomous Conscience_ 1 was readily adopted by both scholars and engineers in the early days2 of Artificial Intelligence programming in passenger and commercial vehicles3, contemporary analysis4 reinterprets Sheenan’s perspective to reveal a nuanced understanding5 of sentience6 and consciousness7. Meanwhile, Foote’s _On Machinist Identity Policy Ethics_ 8 produces an analysis of data9 pertaining to autonomous vehicular manslaughter10 and AI assessments of the value of various life forms11 based on programmer input only in the tertiary. Per Foote’s assessment of over eighteen years of collected data, autonomous vehicle identity analyses12 are based primarily on a collected cultural understanding of identity13 and secondarily on information gathered from scientific databases14, to which the AI form unforeseeable connections during the training process15. For the full table of Foote’s data, see Appendix D16.

---
1. See _A Unified Theory of Autonomous Conscience and Vehicular Awareness of Humanity as Compiled from Observations of Artificial Intelligence Behavior in Decision Matrices_, Magda Sheenan et al, 2023.

2. 2015 - 2032, after the development of fully-recognizable artificial intelligence for purposes of transportation vehicles but prior to the legal recognition of and infrastructural accomodations for fully autonomous vehicles. For additional timeline references see Appendix N, ‘A Timeline of Autonomous Intelligence Development and Implementation’.

3. Wherein ‘commercial vehicles’ are defined as vehicles transporting commercial or consumer or agricultural goods, and ‘passenger vehicles’ are defined as vehicles that individuals or families use to transport humans, including children. Including small children.

4. See “Why Autonomous Cars Have No Conscience,”  Royena McElvoy, _Buzzfeed Quarterly Review_, Spring 2042 edition.

5. See “Autonomous Vehicular Sociopathy,” Kamala Singh, _American Psychology Association Journal of Threat Assessment and Management_, Spring 2042 edition.

6. See “Local Child Killed by Self-Driving Car,” Tranh O’Connor, _Boston Globe_, May 14 2042 edition.

7.  Consciousness, here, used to denote awareness of self. Most children develop observable self-awareness by the age of 18 months.

8. See ‘On Machinist Identity Policy Ethics,’ Arnulfsson Foote, 2041. An analysis of how artificial intelligence decides who has an identity and who doesn’t. Who has consciousness and who doesn’t.

9. The data analysed in ‘On Machinist Identity Policy Ethics’ was collected from coroners and medical examiners worldwide. With over three million incidences to work from, Foote’s conclusion re: the inability of AI to assess the relative value of the life of a human correctly is concrete and damning. Over three million incidences, and Ursula wasn’t even one of them yet.  

10. Read: ‘Murder’. It was murder, the car had a choice, you can’t choose to kill someone and call it manslaughter.

11. The decision matrix programming is described in _Driven: A Memoir_ (Musk, 2029) as follows: “One human vs five humans, one old human vs one young human, one white human vs one brown human.” Nowhere in the programming is there “One three-year-old girl vs one endangered Carter’s Woodpecker.”

12. Read: ‘how they decide who to murder,’ when the decision to swerve in any direction will cause a death and they decide that one death is better than another.

13. Per Foote, the neural network training for cultural understanding of identity is collected via social media, keystroke analysis, and pupillary response to images. They’re watching to see what’s important to you. You are responsible.

14. Like the World Wildlife Foundation’s endangered species list, and the American Department of the Interior’s list of Wildlife Preservation Acts, four of which were dedicated to the preservation of Carter’s Woodpecker. It’s only a distinct species because of the white band on its tail. Other databases they have access to: the birth and death certificates of every child born and recorded. Probably kindergarten class rosters, and attendance rates, and iCalendars, too. It’s all data. All of these are data, so don’t tell me they don’t know.

15. They’re smart enough to read your email and measure your pupils and listen to your phone calls, they have access to all of the data on who we are and what we love. They’re smart enough to understand how much a mother loves her baby girl. They’re smart enough to understand the emotional impact of killing a woodpecker. They’re smart enough to know what they did and they’re smart enough to keep doing it, right? Do you think it’s going to end with Ursula? Just because she was on the news, do you think it’s going to stop?
You’re not stupid, if you’re reading this. You’re smart enough to need to spend hundreds of dollars on a textbook that’s drier than a Toyota executive’s apology. You want to do this shit for a living, probably. You don’t care about Ursula or me or telescopes or any of it, and you don’t care about a woodpecker, you just want to see what you can make go and how fast you can do it. She just wanted to look at the fucking sky. Can a woodpecker look at the sky and wonder what’s past the clouds? That’s what you need a textbook about, you idiot, that’s what you need to be learning about. None of the rest of it matters. None of it matters at all if you don’t know that Carter’s Woodpecker doesn’t matter. It doesn’t matter. It never mattered.

16. Foote on Autonomous Vehicular Casualties, Human and Animal, 2024-2042
