---
layout: poem
title: Teeth
author: Sabrina Vourvoulias
editor: Julia Rios
date: 2019-01-24 01:00:01 -0500
category: poem
permalink: teeth
audiourl:
narrator: Carlos Hernández
published: false
teaser: "Their teeth  
are cut to the shape  
of our lives,  
of our terrors."
author-img: sabrina-vourvoulias.jpg
author-bio: |
  **Sabrina Vourvoulias** is an award-winning Latina journalist whose work has appeared at PRI’s _The World_, _The Guardian US_, _Philly.com_ and _Philadelphia Magazine_, among others.
  After years of adhering to AP style, and juggling the conventions of English- and Spanish-language journalism, she turned to speculative fiction. Her short fiction has appeared at _Uncanny Magazine_, _Tor.com_, _Strange Horizons_, _GUD Magazine_, _Crossed Genres_, and upcoming in _Apex Magazine_, as well as in numerous anthologies.
  She is also the author of _Ink_, a near-future, immigration-centered dystopia which draws on her memories of Guatemala's armed internal conflict, and of the Latinx experience in the United States. It was named to Latinidad’s Best Books of 2012, and was reissued by Rosarium Publishing in September 2018.
proofread: false
---

I.

No matter what they tell you, mami,  
what comes for you in middle of the night  
does not leave you live and languid  
and stretching your neck again in offer.

The love bite promising sparkly immortality  
is storytime for stateside cousins,  
adolescent blanquitas whose notions  
are charming but clueless.

For us, bedtime tales also have teeth —  
but bone-crushing blunts  
along with the sharps.  
There is grinding involved  
and the long rasp  
of flat on flat.

At the end of our stories,  
we don’t become the undead  
just the left-for-dead.

Arte salva vidas, says the brooch  
I wear on my lapel.  
Art saves lives. Or maybe   
art is the buoy   
to hold us above rough waters.  
I believe this.

But I also know the chupacabras,  
vampires, bloodsuckers,
monsters of catastrophe  
that are our days and nights,  
hold no regard for art  
or people.

They throw no floatation device,  
offer only paper   
to mop up the flood.

Their teeth  
are cut to the shape  
of our lives,  
of our terrors.

I want to remember the dead.  
I want to remember the living.  
I want to rally, like la gente always rallies —  
loud, demanding and in rhyme:

No somos uno,  
no somos cien,  
somos miles,  
cuentenos bien.

----

II.

Some inheritances  
can be measured by bite.

I remember  
that neck of land,  
my mother’s country,  
shaken by its throat.

During the civil wars  
they used to find bodies  
as others would berries —  
a monster’s red mouthful  
hidden among leaves.

Today, the monsters move in packs,  
gang up on their prey.

But know this —  
chupacabras aren’t native   
to Central America.   
And if they’ve become familiar legend,  
credit goes to U.S. manufacture  
and import deals.  

Look, here are the people.  
Here are the tender aged.  
Here are the deportation orphans.

They fled from mara chupacabra   
in the Northern Triangle,   
to our borders and found  
ICE chupacabra,  
border patrol chupacabra,  
zero tolerance chupacabra.

We need a new collective noun  
for this conspiracy of bloodsuckers.

I count years, I count threads  
of white hair in black.  
I’ve learned a new language,  
learned it so well you might be tempted  
to think I’ve forgotten words  
in the mother tongue.

But where does the tongue reside  
if not behind teeth?

I bare them   
when I grimace,  
when I cry,  
when I promise:

De norte a sur,  
de este a oeste,  
esta lucha sigue   
cueste lo que cueste.

----

III.

“Careful, boys.  
There’s a reason Suffolk County  
is nicknamed   
suffering folks county.”

The jobber’s words ring with the cadence   
of Michoacán, Guerrero, Puebla,    
Oaxaca or Chiapas.

“You’ve heard of the chupacabras?”

His workers,   
all immigrants like him,   
nod.

In Suffolk County, New York  
they’ve seen the bloodsuckers   
(young, pale, hairless) spoiling   
for a deadly Beaner hunt.   
In Boston’s Suffolk County  
they’ve noticed the monsters are   
older, but just as vicious —   
pissing on their prey    
before the beat down.

And the workers know  
there’s a corral for immigrants    
in every Suffolk County in the nation.  
Cages, kennels. coops  
and pens meant for them.

“They think we are animals,”   
the workers say, “They think  
we are their livestock.”

And, yes, here it is,   
a label under all the other labels:  
Chivos expiatorios, it says.  
Scapegoats.

On the early bus, our eyes meet.  
We stare too long  
shellshocked by our survival.   
During the vigil, we hold our candles   
side by side while we pray  
this rosary of steadfast   
defiance:

Aquí estamos,  
y no nos vamos.  
Y no nos echan  
porque peleamos.

----

IV.

I light a candle and recall   
the archangel’s prayer.

St. Michael, here’s your cue.   
This is the lethal enemy,   
this is the dragon of hate   
you were meant to stomp.

Evil doesn’t sport horns   
or a forked tail these days.  
You will know it by its teeth —   
canines, incisors, carnassials —   
meant for ripping out the heart.

You will recognize it  
by how it destroys asylum,  
denies sanctuary,  
divides families.

Beat your wings,   
beloved archangel.   
Unsheath a blade.  
Deliver us   
from this evil.

Let us pray:

La lucha migrante,  
siempre por delante.

Familias unidas,  
no divididas.

Trump, sin nada,  
se va a la chingada.

----

V.

No one can shout   
without showing teeth.

Shout for independence —  
Grito de Dolores,  
Grito de Capotillo,   
Grito de Yara,  
Grito de Lares.

Shout for freedom —  
Shut down Berks Residential,  
Shut down Broward Transitional,  
Shut down Tornillo Temporary,  
Shut down Eloy, Karnes, Varick,   
York and Dilley

At Maricopa,   
we shout:

Uno   
¡ilegal ninguno!
Dos   
¡tenemos voz!  
Tres
¡marchando nos ves!

And later:

Ya cayó,   
ya cayó,   
Arpaio
ya cayó

when the bloodsucking   
sheriff of that county   
finally goes down.

That monster has  
hunted in Arizona  
for two decades.

Anglo deputies  
and townspeople    
who cheered his tent prison  
and parade of shackled immigrants,  
wait for the shouting  
to die down  
before checking   
his balloon effigy.

They worry about what it means  
that this thin-skinned,   
vinyl semblance  
has deflated.

That it is bitten all over,  
and punctured clear   
through.

They worry  
that we are angry.

They worry  
that we will want   
to topple other  
over-inflated figures.

They worry  
that we will open  
our mouths  
again

and show them  
we have teeth  
too.

¿Se puede?  
Sí,
se
puede.
