---
layout: post
title:  Issue 35 — August 2016
author: Brian J. White
date:   2016-08-01 10:17:05 -0500
category: announcement
permalink: /issue35/front-matter/from-the-editor/
teaser: "We've had a busy month at Fireside..."
published: true
---


Welcome to Issue 35! 
We’ve had a busy month at Fireside. If you haven’t seen [our special report on racism and the underrepresentation of black writers in short fiction magazines](https://medium.com/fireside-fiction-company/blackspecfic-571c00033717#.npjtr6717), along with the series of essays that goes with it, you can check it out here. The numbers are sobering, critical, and utterly unsurprising. 
We’ve also been talking a lot about Year 5, which starts in January. We have a lot of plans, but also a lot to button down in terms of funding and sustainability. More on that later, but if you want to get a jump start now, take a look [at our Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/firesidefiction). It will be the only way to get ebooks in Year 5. Much more on this soon.
 On to the issue! We open with a fantastic short piece as Lauren Roy returns to Fireside with _In Memoriam: Lady Fantastic_, which muses on the way great women — superwomen, even — are often done a disservice by the media in death. Next come two more stories selected by guest editor Daniel José Older. First is S.M. Mack’s _Ariadne, Abandoned on Naxos_ , which takes you inside a piece of Greek mythology and its tangled web of love, loss, and freedom. Then we have Alexis A. Hunter’s _Your Body, By Default_, which takes you inside a body that is not your own, and then tears you apart. It’s got a fantastic illustration by Galen Dara.
 Thanks, as always, for reading.