---
layout: post
title: "Testing Author Pictures and Stuff"
author: Brian J. White
date: 2017-04-09 12:01:00 -0500
category: news
permalink: /testing
teaser: "Author pics!"
published: false
---
Here's a post showing how to add author information into a page. Add a block like the ones below for each author, adn fill in the values for each parameter (img, name, url, and bio). Add author images to the new images/avatars/ folder in the repository. If the author doesn't provide an image, that's fine, just don't include the 'img' parameter.

{% include author.html
            img="avatars/brianwhite.jpg"
            name="Brian J. White"
            url="https://twitter.com/talkwordy"
            bio="Brian White has been a newspaper journalist for over a decade, largely as an editor. He spends a lot of time on Twitter as [@talkwordy](https://twitter.com/talkwordy), where you can generally find him yelling about clowns, hedgehogs, and bigots. He lives around Boston with his amazing wife and two cats that are generally also amazing, though murderous."
            %}

{% include author.html
            img="avatars/pablodefendini.jpg"
            name="Pablo Defendini"
            url="http://defendini.com"
            bio="Pablo Defendini is a designer for hire, with a focus on editorial design for digital media. Occasionally he'll do some illustration and printmaking for his own amusement. He also gets really nerdy exploring new forms for building digital comics out of HTML and CSS. He helped launch Tor.com, before moving on to work for companies that sit in the overlap between publishing and technology, like Open Road Media and O'Reilly. Pablo was born and raised in San Juan, Puerto Rico, lives in New York City, and works with clients all over the world."
            %}

{% include author.html
            img="avatars/elsasjunnesonhenry.jpg"
            name="Elsa Sjunneson-Henry"
            url="http://feministsonar.com/"
            bio="Elsa Sjunneson-Henry is a half-blind, half-deaf, half-Scandinavian writer and editor from Seattle, Washington. She’s got an MA in Women’s History, and she uses that to write about disability and media. She’s enough of a nerd that she ended up making games writing a large part of her freelance career. You can find her yelling about disability and fiction in many places on the internet, including [Feminist Sonar](http://feministsonar.com/), her blog on the intersection of disability issues, gender, sexuality, and media. She’s the author of [_A Place Out of Time_](/issue34/chapter/a-place-out-of-time/) and is also included in the [_Ghost in the Cogs_](http://amzn.to/2au3fe0) anthology. Reports indicate she’s been called a dragon more than once. Supposedly that’s a good thing. Currently, she lives in New Jersey with her delightfully quirky husband, a hound dog, and two cats who may hate her. You can find Elsa on Twitter [@snarkbat](https://twitter.com/snarkbat)."
            %}

And so on. The only big limitation right now is that we can't add links into the main bio copy, as you can see.
