---
layout: post
title: Awards eligibility post for 2017
author: Fireside Staff
date: 2018-01-01 01:00:01 -0500
category: announcement
permalink: awards-2017
published: true
teaser: "Here's a list of all the award-eligible work Fireside published in 2017."
---

As we open 2018, Fireside is looking back on 2017 and cataloguing our output. We went through a lot of changes and challenges in 2017, and we published a lot of excellent fiction, essays, and art while we were at it. Brian J. White stepped down as Fiction Editor and Publisher and Julia Rios joined the team. Mikki Kendall, Cecily Kane, and the staff of FIYAH Lit Magazine worked with us on the #BlackSpecFic report, Elsa Sjunneson-Henry moved up from Assistant Editor to Managing Editor, and Pablo Defendini took on the Publisher role. During this transitional year, we’ve experimented with different ways of running reading periods for submissions and wording our guidelines, gathered some survey answers from submitters to try to assemble statistics, and worked hard to uphold our collective values with things like the Hurricane Bookstore we put up to raise funds for people affected by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. We’re hoping, as ever, to find ways to do more and do it better in 2018.

But first, we want to celebrate our contributors.

Here’s a list of all the stories we published in 2017 in rough chronological order. If you have a favorite among these, let us know! We’d love to hear about it! If you are nominating for the Nebula, Hugo, or other awards and wondering about the categories your favorites are eligible in, we’ve broken everything down into the appropriate categories for you. We’ve also listed the artists we worked with in 2017, and the staff. Fireside Magazine is eligible in the Best Semiprozine category for the Hugo Awards, and Brian and Julia are both individually eligible in the Best Editor Short Form category.


## Short Stories

[_Black Like Them_](/issue39/chapter/black-like-them/), by Troy L. Wiggins

[_God Talk: Advice From A Deity in Distress_](/issue39/chapter/god-talk-advice-from-a-deity-in-distress/),
by Alexis A. Hunter

[_The Praetorian Guard_](/the-praetorian-guard), by Lucas J.W. Johnson

[_It Happened To Me: My Doppleganger Stole My Credit Card Info, and then My Life_](/issue39/chapter/it-happened-to-me-my-doppleganger-stole-my-credit-card-info-and-then-my-life/), by Nino Cipri

[_It Happened To Me: I Melded My Consciousness With the Giant Alien Mushroom Floating Above Chicago_](it-happened-to-me-i-melded-my-consciousness-wtih-the-giant-alien-mushroom-floating-above-chicago), by Nino Cipri

[_The Resurrectionists_](/the-resurrectionists), by Alec Austin

[_Radio Werewolf_](radio-werewolf), by Cassandra Khaw

[_It Happened To Me: I Was Brought Back to Avenge My Death, But Chose Justice Instead_](it-happened-to-me-i-was-brought-back-to-avenge-my-death-but-chose-justice-instead), by Nino Cipri

[_Balance Point_](balance-point), by Sarah Goslee

[_Regarding Your Future With The Futures Planning Consortium_](regarding-your-future-with-the-futures-planning-consortium), by Raq Winchester & Fran Wilde

[_The Hulder’s Husband Says Don’t_](the-hulders-husband-says-dont), by Kate Lechler

[_Bear Language_](bear-language), by Martin Cahill

[_Friendly Emily_](friendly-emily), by Kevin Hearne

[_Snow White_](snow-white), by Mikki Kendall

[_Narrative Disorder_](narrative-disorder), by Malka Older

[_Breathe_](breathe), by R.D. Sullivan

[_How to Sync Your Spouse_](how-to-sync-your-spouse), by Russell Nichols

[_Crow's Eye_](crows-eye), by Sarah Hollowell

[_Independent, Superior_](independent-superior), by Chris Butera

[_Queen Aster, Who Dances_](queen-aster-who-dances), by Tina Connolly

[_We Who Stay Behind_](we-who-stay-behind), by Karl Dandenell

[_The Witch in the Tower_](the-witch-in-the-tower), by Mari Ness

[_Intruder_](intruder), by M. E. Owen

[_A Silhouette Against Armageddon_](/a-silhouette-against-armageddon), by John Wiswell

[_Until the Day We Go Home_](/until-the-day-we-go-home), by Caroline M. Yoachim

[_Junebug’s Magical Magnificent Mercurial Barbershop_](/junebugs-magical-magnificent-mercurial-barbershop), by Malon Edwards

[_Three Laws_](three-laws), by Andrea Phillips

[_Our Secrets, In Keys_](/our-secrets-in-keys), by Suyi Davies Okungbowa

[_Feeding Mr. Whiskers_](feeding-mr-whiskers), by Dawn Bonanno

[_If We Live to Be Giants_](if-we-live-to-be-giants), by Allison Mulder

[_Reaching Beyond_](reaching-beyond), by Evelyn Wong

[_The Whale of Tikpiti’i_](the-whale-of-tikpitii), by Tariro Ndoro

[_Banshee_](banshee), by Cherrelle Shelton

[_Geppetto_](geppetto), by Carlos Hernandez

[_River Boy_](river-boy), by Innocent Chizaram Ilo

[_H&D Plumbing_](h-n-d-plumbing), by Courtney Floyd

[_Something Borrowed, Something Blood-Soaked_](something-borrowed-something-blood-soaked), by Christa Carmen

[_The Scenarist_](the-scenarist), by Stu West

[_Caesura_](caesura), by Hayley Stone

[_A Cure for Ghosts_](a-cure-for-ghosts), by Eden Royce

[_Portrait of Skull with Man_](portrait-of-skull-with-man), by Vina Jie-Min Prasad

[_Mirrors in the Valley_](mirrors-in-the-valley), by Kendra Sims

[_Rab the Giant versus the Witch of the Waterfall_](rab-the-giant-versus-the-witch-of-the-waterfall), by Brian M. Milton

[_The Gingerbread Pox_](the-gingerbread-pox), by Rachel Rodman

[_A Rabbit Egg for Flora_](a-rabbit-egg-for-flora), by Caroline M. Yoachi

---

## Novelettes

[_The Revolution, Brought to You by Nike_](/the-revolution-brought-to-you-by-nike), by Andrea Phillips

[_The Fisher of Bones_](/book/the-fisher-of-bones), by Sarah Gailey

---

## Novels

[_She Wolf and Cub_](book/she-wolf-and-cub), by Lilith Saintcrow

---

## Related works

[_The 2016 #BlackSpecFic Report_](/blackspecfic-2016), by Cecily Kane

[_The FIYAH #BlackSpecFic Roundtable_](/fiyah-roundtable), by The _FIYAH Magazine_ Staff

[_A Note from the Editor of the #BlackSpecFic Responses_](/a-note-from-the-editor-of-the-blackspecfic-responses), by Mikki Kendall

[_A response to the #BlackSpecFic Report_](/a-response-to-the-blackspecfic-report), by De Ana Jones

[_Zero Percent Chance_](/zero-percent-chance), by Chesya Burke

[_The Ones Who Walk Away from the Genres_](/the-ones-who-walk-away-from-the-genre), by Jennifer Marie Brissett

[_Diversity Doesn’t Just Happen_](/diversity-doesn't-just-happen), by Maurice Broaddus

[_One Year Later and We Still Have Work To Do_](/one-year-later), by Khaalidah Muhammad-Ali

[_Addressing a problem_](/addressing-a-problem), by Thea James

[_It's Up to Us_](/its-up-to-us), by Pablo Defendini

[_The Importance of Being Monstrous_](/the-importance-of-being-monstrous), by Meghan Ball

---

## Artists

[Galen Dara](http://www.galendara.com), for [_River Boy_](river-boy), [_Reaching Beyond_](reaching-beyond), [_Intruder_](intruder), [_Crow's Eye_](crows-eye), [_Narrative Disorder_](narrative-disorder), [_Bear Language_](bear-language), [_The Revolution, Brought to You by Nike_](/the-revolution-brought-to-you-by-nike), and [_Black Like Them_](/issue39/chapter/black-like-them/)

[Daniel Stolle](http://www.danielstolle.com) for [_Three Laws_](three-laws)

[Max Cole-Takanikos](https://www.maxcoletakanikos.com) for [_Caesura_](caesura)

[Marianne Khalil](https://mariannekhalil.carbonmade.com) for [_Rab the Giant versus the Witch of the Waterfall_](rab-the-giant-versus-the-witch-of-the-waterfall)

[Miranda Meeks](http://mirandameeks.com) for [_The Fisher of Bones_](/book/the-fisher-of-bones)

---

## Fireside

Pablo Defendini, Publisher<br/>Brian J. White, Fiction Editor<br/>Julia Rios, Fiction Editor<br/>Elsa Sjunneson-Henry, Managing Editor<br/>Mikki Kendall, #BlackSpecFic Editor

---

Thanks to everyone who reads Fireside, who talks with us on Twitter, and who supports us by subscribing or otherwise. We are so glad to be part of a thriving community. We look forward to making that community stronger in 2018. If you have ideas for us, please let us know. We’ve got some things already in the works, but we’re also always listening.

All best to everyone for 2018!
