Hello everybody!
This week we published [_Mirrors in the Valley_](https://firesidefiction.com/mirrors-in-the-valley), a flash piece by Kendra Sims that explores the nature of consciousness, subservience, and Silicon Valley hubris.
We also published part ten of Sarah Gailey’s Serial, _The Fisher of Bones_. We’re getting close to the end, and shit is getting real, as they say. This week, Fisher’s band finally catches up to the renegades who abandoned them a few episodes back. Remember, if you want to finish up the story before we post it all, you can buy [the ebook or paperback editions](https://firesidefiction.com/book/the-fisher-of-bones) on our site.
Thanks to everyone who has sent comics down to Puerto Rico after my request last week. You know who you are, and you’re pretty awesome humans. 
It’s December, and as the year winds down, our preparations for 2018 wind up — we’ve got big, big plans for Fireside in the new year, and we can’t wait to share them with you. In the meantime, we’re cranking away at the accepted stories from our last reading period. Acceptance notices are going out, and authors have started tweeting their excitement. Once everyone has been notified, and they’ve all signed their contracts, we’ll make an announcement post. 
As I’m sure most of you know now, Patreon made some changes to its fee structure that have... well, they have not gone over well. I wrote a thing about it [here](https://firesidefiction.com/regarding-patreon). To be honest, I’m pretty angry that they are pulling a bait-and-switch in our supporters, and my anxiety levels have been through the roof as I see our loyal backers jump ship (which is _totally understandable_). We’re down like $600 as of this writing. That’s no joke.
In order to stanch the bleeding a little bit I immediately set up a PayPal subscription, and it has caught a few people, which helps, but it’s not a good long term solution, for lots of reasons. 
The way we use Patreon, it’s basically a glorified subscription service, so going forward we’ll be managing our subscriptions directly, on our website. For a monthly fee, you can subscribe to our ebooks, and get a month’s worth of stores in your inbox, before they go on the site, same as our Patreon backers. You can now even send Fireside subscriptions as gifts!
We’ve noticed that our Patreon backers at higher levels don’t care as much about their rewards as we assumed they would (there are exceptions of course)—their jam is just supporting us, full stop. So we’ve set up multiple subscription tiers: $2, $5, $10, $20, $50, and even $100 a month. This way people can choose the price  that fits their budget. Each tier gets exactly the same thing—the monthly ebooks—but the higher priced tiers help keep our lights on, and help us get closer to our goal of raising our rates for authors and artists. Over time, we’ll probably do special things for our higher-priced tiers, and I’d love to hear from you all about what kinds of special things you’d like to see. 
In the meantime, if you like what we do, and don’t already back us on Patreon, or if you’re thinking of bailing on them, please consider supporting us by [buying a subscription](https://firesidefiction.com/#support-fireside).
As always, thanks for reading.
